# Week 4A Notes

## I. In-class Exercise - Transmedia "Round Robin"/"Telephone" game


- Your instructor will divide you into groups of three or four students for this exercise, and assign you a group number. At the end of the group activity, you’ll have a short individual writeup to complete.
- Your instructor will give your group an idea to start with - *don't share the story idea with any other groups!*

### Round 1 - Get Started
- For the first ten minute round, your group will create a 100-word story based on the content. After the ten minutes are up, pass your story on to another group. Before you pass the team's paper, write your group number on the top of it.

### Round 2 - Visual Adaptation
- For the second ten-minute round, your group will take the text content from another group and create a 3 panel comic strip on a new piece of paper. Write the *other group's number* (the group that created the story) on the comic. After the ten minutes are up, pass the comic you created (only) on to another group.

### Round 3 - Interactive Story
- For the third ten-minute round, your group will take the visual adaptation from another group and create a "choose your own adventure" flow chart for it. Write the comic number (which refers to the group that created the original story) on the interactive story. Create this interactive story on a new piece of paper. After the ten minutes are up, pass the interactive story you created (only) on to another group.

### Round 4 - Another Story
- For the last ten-minute round, your group will take the flow chart from another group, and create a 100-word story based on it. Create this final story on a new piece of paper. Write the interactive story number (which refers to the group that created the original story) on this final story.

### Group Discussion
- After all four rounds are complete, each group will collect all four versions of your original content (text, visual, and flow chart, and the final story). As a group, discuss the following questions:
  - How did the content evolve across versions?
  - What core elements remained throughout all four?
  - What elements were significantly different?

### Submission to Slack
- Upload images to Slack by replying to the "Transmedia Assignment Submissions" thread in your section-specific Slack channel
- In your reply, be sure to list your group number, group name, group members, and to attach images reflecting the results all 4 rounds. Also include your original prompt! (either type it in, or post an image)
- Only 1 submission per team, please

### Submission to myCourses 
- After the discussion, each person will write up a brief (1-2 paragraph) summary of what the differences were. You can summarize what your group said, or you can share your own individual perspective.
  - ***put this into a Word DOC or PDF and post to the dropbox no later than 11:59PM tonight***
  - EACH member of the group must make an *individual* submission to myCourses



---
---

| <-- Previous Unit | Home | Next Unit -->
| --- | --- | --- 
|   [**Week 3A Notes**](3A.md)  |  [**IGME-110 Home**](../) | Week 5A Notes
