weekly/6B.md, before:

# 6B Notes

## I. Recent HW - Mood Board
- Assignment --> [Visual Design: Mood Board](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1__vvXFySYHWGtQBvBTT5-P6eJRfLBS9vpCaBKWrx0e8/edit?usp=sharing)
- Let's look at them!

---

### I-A. Mood Board Analysis Questions
#### Audience-related:
- Who is this for? (Can you tell age group, interests, lifestyle?)
- What does the color palette tell you about the audience?
- Formal or casual tone? How do you know?

#### Emotional/Psychological:
- What feeling is this trying to create? (energetic? calming? professional? playful?)
- Does the typography match that feeling?
- Would you trust a product with this visual style? Why/why not?

#### Effectiveness:
- Is there a cohesive style or does it feel random?
- Do all the elements work together or fight each other?
- What stands out first? Second? (visual hierarchy)

#### Practical Application:
- Could you create an infographic in this style?
- What would be easy to design from this? What would be hard?
- Does this style support showing data/numbers well?
  
#### Specificity:
- Is this generic or does it match the specific app concept?
- Could this mood board work for ANY app or is it tailored?

---

## II. Recent HW - Visual Communication & Infographics

### II-A. Week 7 Study Guide: Visual Communication

- Assignment -->  [Week 7 Study Guide: Visual Communication](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yZJ_X0Gcly28FiJ-OHMNUh9EeAgkAbkZuoKdoskXO4M)
- &darr;&darr;&darr;  important links from assignment &darr;&darr;&darr;  
- [Video: Venngage - What is visual Communication?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F0p_9nQsl_o&t=6s)
  - VC is the conveyance of information and ideas through visual elements such as images graphics and design. Can be used to infuse freshness and excitement into familiar concepts and can contribute to deeper understanding of subject matter.
  - Two components:
      - Communication Design - craft a message that educates, motivates and engages
      - Graphic Design - use design principles to communicate that message so that it is clear and eye catching
  - Effective Visual Communication should be equally appealing and informative
  - Some examples: Infographics, Process Diagrams, Flow Charts, Roadmaps, Charts and Graphs, Visual Reports, Presentations, Mind Maps
    - e.g. Instructions on a website. The example graphic was much more approachable than a dense wall of text on a web page.
    - See [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/) for many other examples of Infographics and Process Diagrams
  - Venngage - many templates to browse for inspiration (need to do a free signup) - and have to be paid member to download - https://infograph.venngage.com/infographics
- [Video: Canva - How to make an infographic](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=36SIUe_mOZU)
- [Article: Venngage - What Makes a Good Infographic? 7 Tips](https://venngage.com/blog/good-infographic)
  - Overview of Process:
    - Identify specific Goal of Infographic - a "Burning problem" that needs to be answered) - example:
      - Burning Problem: *How can we solve the Cat overpopulation problem?*
      - Supporting Questions: *How many cats are there currently in shelters? What are the best ways to reduce cat overpopulation?*
      - Probing Questions: *Has the number of cats in shelters been reduced at all? How much time is being allocated to reducing cat overpopulation?* 
    - Collect Data
    - Visualize Data
    - Layout Infographic using template
    - Customize template with styles
  - The 7 Steps:
    - 1. Avoid the big no-nos
    - 2. Make it useful to your target audience
    - 3. Use storytelling to convey key messages
    - 4. Choose a layout or template that fits the information
    - 5. Do your research
    - 6. Use visuals that aid comprehension
    - 7. Make it memorable
- [Article: CreativeBloq - The best infographic maker to use](https://www.creativebloq.com/infographic/tools-2131971)
- [Article: Pikotochart - 20 of the Best Infographics and What You Can Learn From Them](https://piktochart.com/blog/best-infographics/)
- [Article: Pikotochart - 150+ Infographic Examples That Inspired Us | With Customizable Templates](https://piktochart.com/blog/infographic-examples/)
- [Article: Venngage - 7 Ways to Show Product Value Using Infographics](https://venngage.com/blog/product-infographic/)

---

## III. Typography Discussion - fonts to use - what --> when & where --> why

- [Design principles: Typography — The Freelancer's Journey (Part 16 of 43)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yom0nogFN3k)

---

## IV. Project 2: Infographic Project Deliverables
- Our in-class exercises and HW have given you everything you need ...
  - ***\*\*\*\* so get going!! :-) \*\*\*\****
- [Project 2: Infographic Project Plan - Requirements](../documents/p2-project-plan.md)
  - see myCourses dropbox for due date
- [Project 2: Infographic - Mockup/Draft](../documents/p2-mockup-draft.md)
  - see myCourses for due date/time
  - we will do an in-class peer review of these drafts
- [Project 2: Infographic - Final Version](../documents/p2-final.md)
  - see myCourses for due date/time
 
---
---

| <-- Previous Unit | Home | Next Unit -->
| --- | --- | --- 
|   [**Week 6A Notes**](6A.md)  |  [**IGME-110 Home**](../) | Week 7A Notes

Commit message:

Add optional class meeting note before Spring Break
Added optional class meeting information prior to Spring Break.

weekly/6B.md, after:

# 6B Notes

## I. Recent HW - Mood Board
- Assignment --> [Visual Design: Mood Board](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1__vvXFySYHWGtQBvBTT5-P6eJRfLBS9vpCaBKWrx0e8/edit?usp=sharing)
- Let's look at them!

---

### I-A. Mood Board Analysis Questions
#### Audience-related:
- Who is this for? (Can you tell age group, interests, lifestyle?)
- What does the color palette tell you about the audience?
- Formal or casual tone? How do you know?

#### Emotional/Psychological:
- What feeling is this trying to create? (energetic? calming? professional? playful?)
- Does the typography match that feeling?
- Would you trust a product with this visual style? Why/why not?

#### Effectiveness:
- Is there a cohesive style or does it feel random?
- Do all the elements work together or fight each other?
- What stands out first? Second? (visual hierarchy)

#### Practical Application:
- Could you create an infographic in this style?
- What would be easy to design from this? What would be hard?
- Does this style support showing data/numbers well?
  
#### Specificity:
- Is this generic or does it match the specific app concept?
- Could this mood board work for ANY app or is it tailored?

---

## II. Recent HW - Visual Communication & Infographics

### II-A. Week 7 Study Guide: Visual Communication

- Assignment -->  [Week 7 Study Guide: Visual Communication](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yZJ_X0Gcly28FiJ-OHMNUh9EeAgkAbkZuoKdoskXO4M)
- &darr;&darr;&darr;  important links from assignment &darr;&darr;&darr;  
- [Video: Venngage - What is visual Communication?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F0p_9nQsl_o&t=6s)
  - VC is the conveyance of information and ideas through visual elements such as images graphics and design. Can be used to infuse freshness and excitement into familiar concepts and can contribute to deeper understanding of subject matter.
  - Two components:
      - Communication Design - craft a message that educates, motivates and engages
      - Graphic Design - use design principles to communicate that message so that it is clear and eye catching
  - Effective Visual Communication should be equally appealing and informative
  - Some examples: Infographics, Process Diagrams, Flow Charts, Roadmaps, Charts and Graphs, Visual Reports, Presentations, Mind Maps
    - e.g. Instructions on a website. The example graphic was much more approachable than a dense wall of text on a web page.
    - See [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/) for many other examples of Infographics and Process Diagrams
  - Venngage - many templates to browse for inspiration (need to do a free signup) - and have to be paid member to download - https://infograph.venngage.com/infographics
- [Video: Canva - How to make an infographic](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=36SIUe_mOZU)
- [Article: Venngage - What Makes a Good Infographic? 7 Tips](https://venngage.com/blog/good-infographic)
  - Overview of Process:
    - Identify specific Goal of Infographic - a "Burning problem" that needs to be answered) - example:
      - Burning Problem: *How can we solve the Cat overpopulation problem?*
      - Supporting Questions: *How many cats are there currently in shelters? What are the best ways to reduce cat overpopulation?*
      - Probing Questions: *Has the number of cats in shelters been reduced at all? How much time is being allocated to reducing cat overpopulation?* 
    - Collect Data
    - Visualize Data
    - Layout Infographic using template
    - Customize template with styles
  - The 7 Steps:
    - 1. Avoid the big no-nos
    - 2. Make it useful to your target audience
    - 3. Use storytelling to convey key messages
    - 4. Choose a layout or template that fits the information
    - 5. Do your research
    - 6. Use visuals that aid comprehension
    - 7. Make it memorable
- [Article: CreativeBloq - The best infographic maker to use](https://www.creativebloq.com/infographic/tools-2131971)
- [Article: Pikotochart - 20 of the Best Infographics and What You Can Learn From Them](https://piktochart.com/blog/best-infographics/)
- [Article: Pikotochart - 150+ Infographic Examples That Inspired Us | With Customizable Templates](https://piktochart.com/blog/infographic-examples/)
- [Article: Venngage - 7 Ways to Show Product Value Using Infographics](https://venngage.com/blog/product-infographic/)

---

## III. Typography Discussion - fonts to use - what --> when & where --> why

- [Design principles: Typography — The Freelancer's Journey (Part 16 of 43)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yom0nogFN3k)

---

## IV. Project 2: Infographic Project Deliverables
- Our in-class exercises and HW have given you everything you need ...
  - ***\*\*\*\* so get going!! :-) \*\*\*\****
- [Project 2: Infographic Project Plan - Requirements](../documents/p2-project-plan.md)
  - see myCourses dropbox for due date
- [Project 2: Infographic - Mockup/Draft](../documents/p2-mockup-draft.md)
  - see myCourses for due date/time
  - we will do an in-class peer review of these drafts
- [Project 2: Infographic - Final Version](../documents/p2-final.md)
  - see myCourses for due date/time

---

## V. BTW
- The last class meeting prior to Spring Break (Thursday 3/5/2026) is *optional* so long as you complete and post the [Week 9 Study Guide: Introduction to Figma & Interaction Design](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nlwsaJXJozfZu4VocByOHxetIghnsTwGtABZgRNFOCc) *prior* to the start of that class meeting
 
---
---

| <-- Previous Unit | Home | Next Unit -->
| --- | --- | --- 
|   [**Week 6A Notes**](6A.md)  |  [**IGME-110 Home**](../) | Week 7A Notes
