documents/transmedia/spring-2026.md, before:

# Transmedia Exercise


## The Ghost Ship (team 1)
- *A ship long lost at sea suddenly reappears in a busy harbor, with no crew aboard. You are part of the team sent to investigate. What happened to the crew?*


![image 1-A](_images/1-A.jpg)

![image 1-B](_images/1-B.jpg)

![image 1-C](_images/1-C.jpg)

![image 1-D](_images/1-D.jpg)


---
---

## The Deserted Town (team 2)
- *You and your friends decide to visit a town that has been deserted for years. As you explore, you realize the town isn’t as empty as it seems. What do you discover?*

![image 2-A](_images/2-A.jpg)

![image 2-B](_images/2-B.jpg)

![image 2-C](_images/2-C.jpg)

![image 2-D](_images/2-D.jpg)


---
---

## A New World (team 3)
*After waking up from a long coma, you find that the world has changed drastically. New technology, new cultures, and new dangers await. How do you adjust to this new life?*


![image 3-A](_images/3-A.jpg)

![image 3-B](_images/3-B.jpg)

![image 3-C](_images/3-C.jpg)

![image 3-D](_images/3-D.jpg)

---
---

## XXX (team 4)

![image 4-A](_images/4-A.jpg)

![image 4-B](_images/4-B.jpg)

![image 4-C](_images/4-C.jpg)

![image 4-D](_images/4-D.jpg)

Commit message:

Rename project to 'The Whispering Wind' for team 4
Updated the title and description for team 4's project.

documents/transmedia/spring-2026.md, after:

# Transmedia Exercise


## The Ghost Ship (team 1)
- *A ship long lost at sea suddenly reappears in a busy harbor, with no crew aboard. You are part of the team sent to investigate. What happened to the crew?*


![image 1-A](_images/1-A.jpg)

![image 1-B](_images/1-B.jpg)

![image 1-C](_images/1-C.jpg)

![image 1-D](_images/1-D.jpg)


---
---

## The Deserted Town (team 2)
- *You and your friends decide to visit a town that has been deserted for years. As you explore, you realize the town isn’t as empty as it seems. What do you discover?*

![image 2-A](_images/2-A.jpg)

![image 2-B](_images/2-B.jpg)

![image 2-C](_images/2-C.jpg)

![image 2-D](_images/2-D.jpg)


---
---

## A New World (team 3)
*After waking up from a long coma, you find that the world has changed drastically. New technology, new cultures, and new dangers await. How do you adjust to this new life?*


![image 3-A](_images/3-A.jpg)

![image 3-B](_images/3-B.jpg)

![image 3-C](_images/3-C.jpg)

![image 3-D](_images/3-D.jpg)

---
---

## The Whispering Wind (team 4)
*You hear whispers in the wind that no one else can hear. At first, they seem harmless, but soon they begin to reveal dangerous secrets. What do the whispers want?*

![image 4-A](_images/4-A.jpg)

![image 4-B](_images/4-B.jpg)

![image 4-C](_images/4-C.jpg)

![image 4-D](_images/4-D.jpg)
